More about arrays. Now here for one
I noticed a little typo, of course that should be fragments not fragements,
sorry about that
and now let's dive in two more interesting Javascript features related to arrays. to be specific into
two syntax features which help us work with arrays.
Now one is a feature which I already briefly introduced but didn't dive deeper into,
well now is the time to dive deeper into it
and that would be the spread operator.
In case you forgot it, the spread operator is an
operator that in the end pulls out all elements of an array and gives them to you as a standalone
list of elements.
So if I for example do name fragments and pulling out all the elements of that array but using it like
this is actually not supported, here I'm pulling out all the elements of the array and I'm not doing
anything with that.
I also can't assign it to a constant like this because that would just be as if you had Max Schwarz
here like that and that would be an invalid syntax, this is is not a supported operation, what would you do with
just a comma separated list like this? Instead where you use this spread operator is for example to copy
an array. So if I have my copied name fragments here, then I can create a new array with square brackets,
an empty array but now populate it with the elements of name fragments but not by adding name fragments
like this,
this would insert this name fragments array as the first and only element in the copied name fragments
array so we would create a nested array in the end but instead we add these three dots which make up that so-called
spread operator, which is liked that rest
operator you saw in the function's module but simply used in a different place. In the functions module,
we used these three dots, the rest operator in the argument list of a function. Here I'm using that in
a place where I need multiple elements,
for example when we initialize an array. This will then pull out all the elements out of the name fragments
array and add them as individual elements to that newly created, otherwise empty array and then copied
name fragments is a new array because we created it with square brackets with the values of the old array,
so with these strings here in that case and the consequence is that if I log name fragments here and I
log copied name fragments here, we'll of course see that if I reload, we get the same array here but it's
interesting that if I now go to name fragments and I for example push a new fragment here, Mr for
mister let's say and I reload,
we see that this mr element is part of the first array output here which is the name fragments array
which is the one where I push that to
but it's not part of that second array which is my copied array where I indeed created a brand new array
and just added the existing elements.
Therefore if I added array one, name fragments, this array two, the copied name fragments array which is a
copy and therefore a brand new array is not touched at all.
So that's one advantage but you don't just use this spread operator for copying things.
If we go back to our prices which we have up there, then you see this is an array full of numbers.
Now you also have some functionalities in Javascript, for example on the global math object which we'll
have a closer look in the numbers module later where you have a min method.
The min method takes a couple of arguments,
it does not take an array,
instead it takes values like 1, 5, -3 and then it will return the smallest value, so if we console log
that and reload, we of course output -3 because that is the smallest value.
Now if you would want to find the minimum value in your prices array,then you would have a problem normally
because that is an array, not a list of values, not a list of arguments so to say.
So if I pass in prices like that and I save that, this doesn't work, I get not a number because indeed
I passed it in array, not a number and it only works with numbers.
So here, again we can use the spread operator to pull these elements out of the array so that we have a
comma separated list of elements
and that's exactly what the min method here requires.
So also for situations like this where you are working with some function or some method that requires
a list of standalone values, the spread operator helps you get these values out of an array and therefore
now, this indeed returns us the minimum price here.
Now one important note about the spread operator and especially about copying arrays with the spread
operator like this. When you copy such an array,
indeed when you added the original array, the copied one is not affected as I showed you.
Now one common mistake is that you copy an array of objects.
So for that let's create a person's array here maybe, where we have objects with name Max, age 30 and
another object, name Manuel, age 31.
Now let's say we want to copy that,
so copied persons of course can be created by adding square brackets and then using the spread operator
on persons like this.
Now unsurprisingly if we console log persons and copied persons like this, you will see that if I
go to persons and I push a new person into this array, let's say Anna, age 29, that this will be part of
persons but not of copied persons because copied persons as you learned is a brand new array and therefore
changes to the original array are not reflected in the brand new one
and indeed that is what we see here,
the second array doesn't hold this Anna object.
Now a common mistake is to think that the objects in the array which are also reference values are also
copied and that's not the case.
We're copying all the elements of the array which means we're copying the addresses of these objects
at the end.
So whilst we have a brand new array, the objects in the array, the objects in that brand new array are
still the old objects because in the end, you must never forget you're working with reference values and
therefore in the end, this is an array full of addresses to the places in memory of these objects,
so you are copying all these addresses here.
Hence if we would go to persons and there let's say to the first element which is Max and change the
age to 31, you will see that this change is also reflected in copied persons.
If I reload this, we have a look, expand this,
this is copied persons and you'll see the age is 31. Now
that happens because I copy the address of the place in memory and here
I then added this object in that place in memory.
So since we here only copy these addresses and create a new array but no new objects, of course any
edits to these objects
also affect our persons in a new, in a copied array and that's not a bug or anything like that,
this is the intended behavior.
If you would want to avoid that, you would have to copy every object here as well which you could achieve
by using the map method for example.
So here on persons, we map that to get a brand new array and then we pull elements out of that returned
brand new array and
now in there, we get a single person and now we can return a new object for every person.
So then here, we could return an object and side note, since I returned something in curly braces to tell
Javascript that this does not mark the function body but should be my object, I have to wrap this in an extra
pair of parentheses,
this will then tell Javascript that this here is the single expression function body,
so I just return something immediately
and this here does therefore not mark the function body but instead marks the object which I'm returning.
So here I can then return a brand new object where name is equal to person.name and age is equal
to person.age.
So I keep all the data of the original person but I wrap it into a brand new object, so the same logic
in the end as I do it for this array, I create a new array and keep all the original objects.
Now I don't really do that,
instead I map all objects in the original array into new objects which therefore have new places in
memory and then map gives me a new array as you learned and I pull out all the elements of that new
array that map returns and merge them into this yet another new array with these square brackets and
therefore actually, here you could omit that, you could just save the result of map here because map
already returns a new array,
so now we would have a new array with new objects in there but even then, if one of these persons had
a hobbies key which is an array, then you would have the same problem. You would clone the object, you would
clone the outer array but any inner reference value fields are not copied.
Now this is not necessarily a problem,
of course you could now find ways to then clone the hobbies as well, right?
You could say hobbies equal to new array where you make a copy with the spread operator but you can
do this infinitely depending on how many nested reference values you have here.
That's not really the goal,
that's not really what you should aim for,
instead only copy what you plan on changing where you don't want to have these changes reflected in
the copied value, in the copied array or whatever you are copying,
that is how you should think about that.
So it can be tricky, in the end the spread
operator is a very useful tool for copying, for distributing elements into the argument list of a method
and when you do copy,
keep in mind what I just explained about nested reference values and that you might need to copy these
as well but only if you copy these as well and you don't want the changes to these nested reference
values reflected in your newly created copied array or whatever it is as well.